---
layout: post
title: Scientific Ethics Workshop
date: 2024-06-16 21:01:00
tags: SCI6103 astronomy workshop reflections
categories: astronomy workshop
---
This workshop focused mainly on animal and human ethics, which is very important. However, it is not currently an issue in astrophysics, though with space exploration it might become relevant in the future. Whether that will involve people on board or considerations regarding animals, contamination or disease transfer to different planetary ecosystems.

For now, as per Dr. Holt’s instructions, I am going to reflect upon a specific area of my field. Research ethics can equally be applied to academic integrity. It could involve blatant plagiarism or having some good practices that make academic and scientific research communications more robust. Academic integrity It leads to more honesty, fairness, and openness and eliminates falsification and deception. We can fall short of academic standards sometimes knowingly and sometimes unknowingly. Each item whether that is an image, dataset, table or figure – everything needs to be properly cited. Having a good reference manager, such as the Mendeley reference generator or Endnote can help us with that. Keeping a record of every idea we come across that we may want to use – jotting that down somewhere is essential.  This is not only for future reference but also if you need to prove how you came up with that idea or conclusion. Good academic practises will lead to creativity, application, and development while preventing misuse and deception. Principles such as honesty, trust, fairness, and respect are essential in research. Avoiding cheating and collusion is crucial. Do not present ideas as your own without proper citations. Use proper sources, respected journals, and peer-reviewed articles. Avoid dodgy websites like Wikipedia. I have struggled in the past to formulate my own words. Sometimes, no matter what I write, it seems like I am just quoting. Learning to rephrase is an important skill, and I still sometimes struggle with it. Sometimes giving it a bit of time can help form a more coherent narrative in your mind. And stepping away from it all for some time can be beneficial.