---
layout: post
title: Planning Workshop
date: 2024-06-10 21:01:00
tags: SCI6103 workshop reflections
categories: astronomy
---
This workshop made me realise how unconventional and unorganized I am at certain things. I should have learned these skills in school. Although I do use some of these techniques intuitively, having a structured framework is very useful. This workshop suggested that I should view my studies, courses, or any big tasks as projects. Dividing the whole project into smaller tasks helps us stay on track. Setting small tasks as weekly goals can make a seemingly big project much more manageable. There are tools available to help us with that, such as calendars, to-do lists, and Gantt charts. Using these tools ensures that all tasks are completed on time and to a certain standard of satisfaction. You can see what is done, what needs to be done, and in what priority. Whether we use the agile technique, project-based technique, scientific method, design thinking, or a mixture of any or all these techniques, we must figure out what works best for us and is appropriate for the required outcome.

Whenever I’ve done any course planning in the past, it has always been my weak point. I have always run out of time, squeezing tasks in here and there, and missing out on vital milestones. I find the Gantt chart approach very interesting for visualizing tasks and planning. Even in this course, I came to the planning part much later. I did some preliminary planning, but it wasn’t very thorough, and I still need to keep at it and adjust it to my preference and schedule. I can see where I have made certain mistakes. I tend to get bogged down doing some tasks and completely run out of time for others. Now, I have broken the project into more manageable chunks according to my current understanding of the course and my pace. However, I am still running a week late, so I will allocate more time to some tasks and try to come up to date soon. I need to work more on planning. Moving forward, I’ll try to incorporate more of this into my upcoming courses, as well as my personal and professional life.